# Tenant Identifier extension

This extension defines an attribute that can be included within a CloudEvent
to state the tenant whcih has generated the event.

Often modern systems are designed to support 
[multi-tenancy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multitenancy): a single instance of
a multi-tenant system can serve multiple customers or tenant at the same time.
Each customer share the resources available to the system with all other tenant.
Each tenant’s data SHOULD be isolated and made inaccessible to other tenants.
Therefore, a multi-tenant system SHOULD be able to distinguish events generated by different
tenant in order to apply to correct tenant-based rule (e.g. routing, scheduling, 
processing, quotas, security, etc.).
To achieve this, event publishers SHOULD be able to specify some sort of tenat
identifier to empower the receiver on the other side of the wired to apply the correct
tenant-based rule.

Even though the tenant identifier could be kept within the data field, most of the
time multi-tenant systems do not required to handle the event body to apply the required
tenant-based rules. Therefore the tenant identifier should be stored alongside other
event metadata outside the the data field.

## Attributes

### tenantid

* Type: `String`
* Description: tenant identifier for the event, typically for the purposes of
  applying the required tenant-based rules without having to handle the data field. In
  cases where the CloudEvent is delivered to an event consumer via multiple hops, the
  value of this attribute SHOULD be kept unchanged.
* Examples:
  * The ID of the tenant that the event is associated with
* Constraints:
  * REQUIRED
  * MUST be a non-empty string

## Encoding

### In-memory formats

The tenant attribute extension uses the key `tenantid` for in-memory formats.

### Transport format

The Tenant Identifier extension does not customise any transport binding's storage for
extensions.
